

li rou are a motor
and beach, return
of, and refuse
med ticket, for
extul speedwa
sichjust hard e
ron dar by the mi
Ormond Hote
ad the Halifax Ri
we homelike thar
E the grounds h
za iz St. August
gabing beautiful
55 and the cotta
streets bord
i spanish moss.
Ormond, with
ou must push
his the heart of
schevery
2 of the
Priniana
the largest
aorldused
wielu lor
Copyright, Pictorun Vere's New York, 1979.
WHITEHALL,"
THE RESIDENCE OF H. M. FLAGLER AT PALM BEACH, FLORIDA.
canaded
Ctetural
| ] ༤.jns-ཡ་
that is
means
ان [al
They tell
PHONESTOS
2 Dot
Duomo of Florence, though without the sea eral effect. Barely twenty years old, they
of Florentine roofs about it: the Memorial look as if they had always been there, in
Church, perhaps the most beautiful small that precise spot. They “belong,” very de-
church in America. More Flagler!
cidedly.
You stop in St. Augustine to rest before And the crowd that you see is a crowd of
proceeding south. (It sounds curious to all kinds of people, who are not altogether
say south, here!) It is an old town, St. pleasure-hunting nor exclusively health-seek-
Augustine: “The oldest city in the United ing, neither prosperous-looking nor shabby.
States,” they are careful to tell you. Also In all the hotels you see more gray
heads
they point out a dozen “oldest” houses, than black or brown or blond.
none particularly interesting, and the old
you, on the slightest provocation, how many
Spanish fort and the old slave market years they have been coming down here for
which probably wasn't a slave market at the winter. And you gather, before your
all. In point of fact, the spirit of the place first day has passed, that Florida is not
does not bear down very heavily on you merely a Fashionable Fad. It is a National
with the weight of antiquity. No huge ash Institution.
shifter has been shaken over it, covering From St. Augustine you go south to Or-
everything with the fine dust of disintegrated mond. On this trip you first begin to bear
centuries, as in the medieval towns of Eu the natives' remarks about the wonderful
rope. Nevertheless, something here is dif-
way the trains have of being on time, and
ferent; I think it is because everywhere you the great number of cars, passenger and
see palms.
freight, they are running. You feel almost
And utilizing to the utmost this palm as if you were on the first train that ever ran
motif are the Flagler hotels. They fit, these
to the latest mining town. The Florida of
beautiful edifices, Spanish in architecture yesterday you thus visualize so clearly that
and gorgeously successful in the utter un-
your respect for Flagler grows, long before
Americanness of their environment and gen you have come to his crowning triumphs.
170
2.itete,
it grounds
ceis de
ou les
ante; * o-day
I see the
gates of the
a Tomake
i din
i sold silier
