
184
Everybody's Magazine
acations
FT That
It was
SO
teple lear
set tale
bat DE
dit the
neers was now personal: What to do with What we call knowledge is not merely the
the profits? His yearly income was in itself collection, but the proper classification, of
a princely fortune—and growing princelier. facts. This man's years, from the thirty-
Outside investments must be sought. John fifth to the fifty-fifth, were spent in business-
D. Rockefeller became the richest man in on the defensive against certain men, in the
the world. Flagler says: “If it wasn't for offensive against other men.
Florida, I'd be quite a rich man to-day.” strenuous, so remarkable a business experi-
It is characteristic of men who see clearly ence, that he could not come into that intimate
and think in straight lines that they have no contact with his fellows necessary to acquire
illusions about their capabilities or those of the essential facts about them; nor had he
others. Flagler says that at fifty-five he the leisure to classify such facts into real
“had the sense to see that younger men in knowledge. The oil that the power of his
the company could run the business better, mind transformed into wealth shaped itself
if they had the chance.” And at about that into the one unscalable fence of all--a fence
same time he went to St. Augustine for a rest, of solid gold, exactly man-high!
accompanied by his daughter, who was not In all his life he has never been in
well. If it had not been for that visit at that Europe, nor even in California. He told
time, he might perhaps to-day be the second me once: “If ever the Lord made a man
richest man in the world.
who hated traveling, I am that man!" But
he had read books, he was fond of history.
FROM OHIO WHEAT TO FLORIDA PALMS His thirst for information made him inter-
ested in beautiful and strange places, even
His personal habits had always been simple. though he preferred to imagine what they
They tell me he carried his lunch to his office were like rather than to visit them. He had
daily for years, even after he was a million grown up with his own country. And in
aire; not from excessive frugality so much as Ohio, where he lived from boyhood till
from absorption in his work and from that middle age, he had seen about him only the
curious half-shyness, half-modesty of his. new, the raw, the man-made things of to-
The wife of his youth was an invalid. Every day. Yet antiquity and the works of an-
night, when his work was done, he went tiquity had for him a peculiar fascination.
home. He would read to her; or, if she were You must bear in mind also that there is a
too fatigued, he would sit in the adjoining well-developed vein of sentiment in him.
room and read to himself. In seventeen He himself probably is not aware of it; but
years this man, who was well liked by his he has it. Nor does it show inconsistency.
fellows, spent but two evenings away from And so this man of fifty-five, so rich that
his home. Two nights in seventeen years! his most serious problem was how to invest
Diversion, distraction from business cares, his income, this man who had read a great
information he found in books read aloud to deal and had never traveled, went to St.
an invalid wife and silently to himself.
Augustine. It was the oldest city in the
At first blush, it seems curious that this United States. He saw the old slave
man, with his genius for detail, his broad market, he saw the old Spanish fort; he
grasp of essentials, his remarkable sense of saw the old city gates! He saw what you
fundamentals, his vivid imagination, and a and I saw when we went to Pompeii or first
very highly developed creative impulse, a gazed on the Pyramids! He saw palms-
man who never was really selfish nor self palms/—this man who had grown up in
centered, up to his sixtieth year found more Ohio amid the wheat. St. Augustine was a
pleasure in things than in men.
magic pool; he steeped his soul in the
think about it, it is not strange at all. •In- glamour and romance of antiquity.
essentials never entered into his scheme of It was to him, logically enough, the most
things. He found men ready-made; and interesting place he had ever seen, the most
saw industrial processes in embryo. He said unusual, the most un-American. Why didn't
to me: "I never want to leave a thing un more people come to it? This Spanish city
finished”; and he was very busy with his was three hundred years old; and the city of
Standard Oil Company. His life's philos- Cleveland, Ohio—why, he was as old as
ophy he left unfinished until an age when Cleveland, almost.
the shadow of the cemetery gates falls The reason why more people didn't come
athwart a man's consciousness.
to St. Augustine was that the hotel accom-
To
But if you
