
182
• Everybody's Magazine
he
a be the
Tohet
thought-a long time—and at last he said: often look at this house that I built and had
“Yes. You might send a copy to Mrs. decorated by artists. Then I look at this
another name, in Kansas. I did so, and panel. I am going to put on it: 'What God
asked him if those were all he could think hath wrought.""
of. He said they were. I'd never heard But all this did not give me the insight
those names, and I asked him if these ladies into the man that I desired. The clues came
knew mother well. 'I think so,' he said. later.
“Who are they, father?' I asked him; and he “Mr. Flagler, which do you enjoy more,
said: “They are my sisters.' Several years planning work or doing it?"
afterward, when a cousin in Canandaigua “There isn't much fun in work if you don't
was getting up a history of the Flagler accomplish something."
family, I learned for the first time that my The second was: “Which do you consider
father was one of twelve children. So I the hardest thing you have done in Florida ?”
suppose I inherited from him my dislike of “Building the Ponce de Leon. Here was
speaking about myself.”
St. Augustine, the oldest city in the United
I asked him what the “M” in his name States. How to build a hotel to meet the
stood for, and he replied: "Morrison. My requirements of nineteenth-century America
mother was Scotch. The first time I ever and have it in keeping with the character of
used my middle name was ten years ago, the place—that was my hardest problem.
when the Governor of Bahama wished to The Alcazar I built because it was suggested
know, on account of a contract between my to me that there were many nice people who
self and the British Government. He cabled might not be able to afford to pay the rates
me: 'How do you spell it?' and I didn't the Ponce de Leon would have to ask, and
know. I wasn't sure whether there was one yet wished to enjoy St. Augustine. To pro-
'r' or two.” He was only seventy years old vide accommodations for them, we built the
and had never thought about his middle Alcazar as a two-dollar-a-day house. It is
name!
every bit as good as the Ponce de Leon.”
In "Whitehall," during one of my visits, I
remarked on the charming color scheme of,
A MAN WITH TWO YOUTHS
I think, the drawing-room, and I learned it
was his own suggestion to his decorators. On the night of the Ponce de Leon cele-
“How did the idea come to you?”
bration in St. Augustine last spring, I met him
“I don't know. I just thought it would in the courtyard of the hotel. He was stand-
look well."
ing by the fountain. The sky was like the
“You have the aesthetic sense well de inside of a huge, hollow turquoise--blue,
veloped ?”
luminous, thinly washed with silver. The
“I don't know.” And then he told me
moon was very bright; so near the earth that
that he had differed with his architects only it seemed more neighborly than in the North.
once. It was about the height of the ceil A mist as of vaporized moon-metal enveloped
ing of the great hall. They wanted it higher, the buildings and made them unforgettably
to secure the right proportions.
beautiful. The grounds were illuminated;
“But I wanted to feel at home, and so I you could have sworn the lights were captive
made them put it eight feet lower. I can fireflies. The palms resembled ghosts of
come here and sit down and feel that it is women with disheveled hair. The fountain
The Italian ambassador told me splashed droningly. You heard no other
that I had something the Old World had not; sound.
and that was a palace to be lived in. That For perhaps five minutes he stood there;
was what I wanted-a home.” And, char at length he turned to me and murmured:
acteristically, it was built in eight months. “This is beautiful! Beautiful!"
He himself decided everything.
That was the time and place from which,
I remember, after he had shown me beginning at his eightieth year, I walked back
through “Whitehall,” and I had congratu twenty years, to the beginning of the second
lated him on its beauty, that he led me to a youth of Henry M. Flagler.
panel of Honduras mahogany that hung,
picture-like, from the wall; a beautiful slab Little is known of Flagler's early youth.
of wood, exquisite in color and marvelously He is temperamentally averse to reminis-
grained. He turned to me and said: “I
But Flagler himself told me that he
my home.
cences.
