
1 86
Everybody's Magazine
When orange
.
passenger traffic. He did not care so much difficult, after all, to visualize the man as he
for the tourists as for the fruit growers now. is to-day, at eighty years, in the flower of his
Therefore in Palm Beach he did not take the Second Youth.
interest in the Royal Poinciana Hotel, archi-
tecturally, that he did in the Ponce de Leon. I shall never forget the last time I saw him.
He gratified his love of beauty with the marvel It was in Palm Beach. A supernally beau-
ous grounds, in the making of a garden spot. tiful day! ... Now that the end was
And again the frost came.
coming, the heavens took on marvelous tints.
trees were killed, perversely, in what up to From the dark fringe of trees on the opposite
that time had been a section safe from shore of Lake Worth palest greens shaded
"freezes," somebody showed him a spray of upward into incredibly delicate blues. Veils
lemon blossoms from near Miami. The of fire opal had been drawn across the sky
lemon tree is even more delicate than the and then rent. You saw tatters of incan-
orange.
So he carried his railroad to Miami. descent gold, topazine splendors in shreds.
He built the town. He felt safe there. He • The clouds grew faintly pink, then
would see a city below the frost belt. He rosy, with tints almost of dawn.
To
laid it out, when he should have been think the south the sky was a plowed field; the
ing of the City Beautiful. But had he not furrow-slices were of molten fire, and in the
found his Second Youth ?
depths of the furrows, as though it were
When Cuba became a republic, it was shallow soil, the sky showed through in
evident that under American influences it streaks of beryl and aquamarine and tur-
would develop fast. Friends tried to induce quoise. In the east, where the sun's cloud-
him to build a chain of Flagler hotels on the plowing had not yet begun, the sky remained
Island; but he declined. I myself think it a stupendous meadow of amethyst.
was too much of a money-making scheme to All that day I had tried to catch a glimpse
move him. His views were more serious; of this man's soul-in vain. And now, in
if he worked at all, he would do a man's the loggia of his palace, looking out to where
work; not merely a capitalist's. But he did Lake Worth, expecting the night airs, bad
think of extending the railroad to Key West. covered its bare blue bosom with silver-cloth,
When it became certain that the United and, beyond that, to where the dark green
States would build the Panama Canal, he tree-fringe was spotting itself with inky
sent for his engineers. And the amazing shadows, I turned to this old, old man who
railroad among the Keys followed.
had done so much and had talked so little;
I do not know whether I have succeeded and, forgetting all differences-in age and
in making clear what I mean by saying that experience and ideals and point of view-I
in Florida Henry M. Flagler found his asked him, I fear impatiently:
Second Youth and was able to do a work “Doesn't this sky get into your soul?
that only youth ever does. It is an amazing Doesn't that glow light it? Don't you love
work, even in this land of rapid development. that water, that line of trees, that sky? Isn't
Where others have helped, he has forced, this the real reason why you do things bere?”
growth. That it is a work of vast importance He turned to me, hesitated; then, very
is obvious. That it is unique is due to the slowly, very quietly, he said: “Sometimes, at
impossibility of finding a man of Flagler's the close of day, when I am fortunate enough
mind and Flagler's wealth and Flagler's to be alone, I come here.” He faced Lake
business experience, having the attitude of Worth and was silent. Then: “I look at the
Flagler toward his fellow-men. To my water and at the trees yonder and at the sun-
mind his most remarkable exploit was the set.” He turned to me and placed his hand
changing of his own point of view, of his on my shoulder. Then, earnestly, almost
attitude toward his fellow-men, so wistfully: “I often wonder if there is anything
pletely, at so advanced an age. You must in the other world so beautiful as this."
admit that he has done as a man in his prime I saw him, a tall, sturdy figure, snow-
does. It is easy to give; it is not easy to give crowned, looking at the lake over whose
as Flagler has given--money and service. mid-day turquoise dusk had spread a silver
And if the magnitude of his accomplishment rug-wrinkled in places, for the night winds
grows the more you ponder it, so does the had come.
man's character appear more remarkable I did not say good-by to this man.
The
the more you reflect. It is therefore not so sun said it for me.
com-
