
180
Everybody's Magazine
ate, but he never drawls; a business man happen. I happened to be in St. Augustine
without the fidgets of a “hustler.” You and had some spare money.”
realize that there is no life-habit of caution; “You must have thought a good hotel was
you get no impression of a man perennially needed.”
on his guard, as in John D. Rockefeller; he “I suppose so," very simply.
is calm and kindly; never distant-and al “You think ten times to one of talking?"
ways at a distance.
“I've talked you black and blue.”
“But you do think ten times more than
A STATUE WITH VEINS
you speak?”
“I suppose so.” There is no weariness
You realize that you are before a man in the “I suppose so.” It isn't languid, it
who has suffered and has never wept; who isn't tired; no indifference, no interest. He
has undergone intense pain and has never accepts facts without thrills.
sobbed; who has never bent under stress and “How did you achieve your success in
has never hurrahed! When a man has one business?"
or another group of salient traits, you place "All I can say is by working six days a
him in a certain pigeonhole of human classi week.” He does not seem to have any
fication. Your great man is apt to be one maxims or business aphorisms.
with certain faculties over-developed, and “How do you manage to have such health
classifies easily. But Flagler is not like any at your age?”
one else and withal is not eccentric. He is "When I answer friends who ask me that
without redeeming vices, without amiable same question, they laugh. But I mean it.
inconsistencies, without obsessions. He When I was young I was too poor to in-
simply does not “classify.” You cannot ac dulge in bad habits. By the time I was
curately adjectivize him. He does not defy able to afford them, it had become a fixed
analysis; he baffles it. It is as if the soul of habit to live simply.”
him, condensed, compressed by environment, Only now and then are you made con-
or heredity, or some great natural force scious that he is of an earlier generation.
not by self-effort—had been molded into Thus, in answer to another question:
a statue, full of vitality, yet immobile; “I have studied the price men pay for
a statue with veins.
Whether they run success—the loss of health or of character or
red blood you cannot tell; but you are of reputation.' And I find that all men who
certain it is not ice water. What ichor is
win success, no matter how they win it, are
it, then?
always met with envy. That accounts for
That is the mystery of the soul of Henry many of the attacks you mention.”
M. Flagler.
“Why should that be?”
“Poor human nature, I suppose." He
“Sit here, on this lounge, beside me. I has not grasped the reason for our muck-
will let you have my good ear.
raking.
too good at that,” he said, and made room On a trip to Indian River, years ago,
for me beside him, the first time I saw him. met a squatter, a Jerseyman who had gone
I asked him many questions. He an south for his health and was growing all
swered every one promptly; I received no manner of fruits and vegetables, including
definite impression of the man. It does not pineapples, of which he had secured the slips
often happen. Silence is the best guard on a trip he once made to the Bahamas.
against self-betrayal. With this man it was “He told me," said Flagler, “that the
speech. And yet he was frank.
apple Eve tempted Adam with must have
The conversation ran like this:
been a pineapple. When I saw how this
“Do you do thus and so ?”
man was growing all sorts of sub-tropical
“Sometimes.”
fruits, I thought that what he could do
“Do you like this?”
others could do, and that it ought to pay.
“Oh, yes.”
decided to give them a chance to do it by
“Are you fond of that?”
building a railroad. It was forlorn-looking
"Yes; somewhat.” Always with a quiet country. If I hadn't seen that Jerseyman,
voice, neither bored nor interested.
I'd never have believed it could be done.
“How did you build your system?” But I decided it was a good thing."
"Oh, it's one of those things that just “And you were right.”
It is none
he
I
