
Flagler and Florida
183
went to the district school and learned all urged the incorporation. When John D.
there was to be learned there; also--you Rockefeller was asked on the witness stand
recall--that he left his home at fourteen be if it was he who conceived the idea, he
cause he thought it was his duty not to be a answered: “No, sir. I wish I'd had the
burden to his father. He knew no trade brains to think of it. It was Henry M.
and probably did not fancy any.
When he Flagler.”
went to northern Ohio in 1844, he became a It was in the conduct of the oil business
clerk in a country store.
He worked hard that Flagler's mind developed its fortune-
-six days a week. In time he became a winning traits. His “arrival” was as inevita-
partner in the firm, and the firm in turn ble as the succession of the seasons. He did
became, among other things, the principal not philosophize about business; but he
grain shipper in Bellevue.
grasped details amazingly and thought in
fundamentals. It was the precise-minded
FLAGLER BEFORE STANDARD OIL DAYS Flagler who drew up the agreements that
made millions.
In the early sixties he and his partner be In the Standard Oil Company's gigantic
came interested in salt-wells in Saginaw, growth, grave problems were met and dealt
Michigan. It was at the time of the salt with-and dealt with, it seems to us outsiders,
craze, and fabulous fortunes were going to from the point of view of business expediency
be made in that business. After some years and corporate profit. The business, from its
of ups and downs the partners failed. A very very magnitude and ramifications, inevitably
old friend of his told me he recalled hearing had its political, no less than its financial and
Flagler say, forty-odd years ago, that he commercial and industrial phases. In his
owed $30,000, and that if he ever paid off passion for stability and permanence and
his debts and was $10,000 ahead, he would efficiency, how much there was of ruthless-
retire from business. At all events, after his ness in what Flagler did I do not know, nor
Michigan failure he spent a year in Cleveland how far he went in that auto-hypnotization
working at various things. He was interested practiced by the great captains of industry, in
in a machine for making horseshoes, which whose plans you always find the emotionless
was never perfected. He also tried to do a belief that the end justifies the means. If the
grain commission business. John D. Rocke philosophy of his life was to crystallize at all,
feller, then a bookkeeper, he met in the office it surely should have done so by his fiftieth
of ex-Mayor George W. Gardner in Cleve year. Under the compulsion of environment
land, who was a grain shipper and as such and of those long years when he and his
knew and liked Flagler from the old Bellevue associates were perfecting the organization
days. It was a period of poverty and des of the company, one might logically expect
pondency. His wife's uncle became inter that same philosophy to smell of petroleum,
ested in him and supplied the money-so I
of the life-blood of competitors, to be tinged
am informed by old-timers—with which with the bitterness that comes to a man
Flagler joined the others in forming the oil perennially on the defensive. But money-
firm of Rockefeller, Flagler, and Andrews. making never was a passion with him, though
He was close to his fortieth year; close to efficiency was. His mental machinery did
that period of life when a man is at his maxi his work for him in the manner in which all
mum efficiency; but also, an age at which a efficient machinery works. But the motive
man has acquired the equipment with which power did not come from the soul of the man.
to command whatever success is to come to
him. He merely "found himself” somewhat WHY FLAGLER ISN'T THE SECOND RICHEST
later in life than is usual with men. Mentally
he has grown in the same deliberate manner
in which he does everything; and as thor Past his half-century, Flagler, a clear-
oughly.
headed, calm-eyed man, found himself enor-
The oil business was profitable from the mously rich. The profits of the oil business
start, and his mind first grasped its vast had been put back into the business. But
possibilities. He was responsible for the the inevitable day came when there was no
formation of the Standard Oil Company. It need for further investment. The money-
was too profitable a business to be dependent making machine was not only perfect; it was
on the life of any one of the partners, so he permanent.
The only concern of its engi-
MAN
